README.md, before:

# CCIHS: Cross-Chain Interoperability Hooks for Solana

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
<!-- [![Rust](https://github.com/yourusername/ccihs/workflows/Rust/badge.svg)](https://github.com/yourusername/ccihs/actions) -->
<!-- [![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ccihs.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/ccihs) -->
<!-- [![Docs.rs](https://docs.rs/ccihs/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/ccihs) -->

## Overview

CCIHS (Cross-Chain Interoperability Hooks for Solana) is a cutting-edge Rust library designed to revolutionize cross-chain communication for Solana-based applications. In an increasingly interconnected blockchain ecosystem, CCIHS serves as a crucial transport network interface, enabling seamless interaction between Solana and other blockchain networks.

At its core, CCIHS provides a robust and flexible framework that abstracts the complexities of cross-chain messaging. It leverages Solana's high-performance architecture while offering a standardized interface for interacting with various cross-chain protocols. This approach not only simplifies development but also future-proofs applications against changes in underlying cross-chain technologies.

Key aspects of CCIHS include:

1. **Protocol Abstraction**: CCIHS provides a unified API that works across different cross-chain protocols. Currently supporting Wormhole, with plans to integrate LayerZero and other protocols, CCIHS allows developers to switch between or combine multiple protocols without significant code changes.

2. **Extensible Hook System**: The library's hook system is its standout feature, offering unparalleled flexibility in message processing. Developers can inject custom logic at various stages of the cross-chain communication process, enabling advanced use cases like automatic fee adjustments, message validation, or data transformations.

3. **Solana Optimization**: Built with Solana's unique capabilities in mind, CCIHS is optimized for high throughput and low latency, ensuring efficient use of Solana's resources when interfacing with cross-chain transport networks.

4. **Comprehensive Error Handling**: Cross-chain operations involve multiple points of potential failure. CCIHS implements robust error handling and recovery mechanisms, enhancing the reliability of cross-chain applications.

5. **Developer-Friendly**: With a focus on developer experience, CCIHS offers clear documentation, intuitive APIs, and helpful abstractions that make cross-chain development more accessible.

6. **Security-First Design**: Recognizing the critical nature of cross-chain communications, CCIHS incorporates multiple layers of security checks and balances to safeguard against common vulnerabilities in transport network interactions.

## Features

- **Seamless Cross-Chain Communication**: Easily send and receive messages between Solana and other supported blockchains.
- **Flexible Hook System**: Customize message processing with pre-dispatch, post-dispatch, pre-execution, and post-execution hooks.
- **Protocol Abstraction**: Support for multiple cross-chain protocols (currently Wormhole, with plans for LayerZero and more).
- **Comprehensive Error Handling**: Robust error management for reliable cross-chain operations.
- **Solana Optimization**: Designed to leverage Solana's high-speed, low-cost architecture.
- **Extensible Architecture**: Easily add support for new chains and protocols.

## Use Cases

CCIHS enables unique cross-chain applications that were previously difficult or impossible to implement. Here are some key use cases that showcase CCIHS's capabilities:

1. **Dynamic Cross-Chain Liquidity Routing**: 
   - Automatically route transactions through the most efficient cross-chain paths based on real-time liquidity and fee conditions.
   - CCIHS uses its hook system to check liquidity levels and fees across multiple chains before executing a transaction, optimizing for cost and speed.

2. **Cross-Chain State-Dependent Smart Contracts**: 
   - Create smart contracts that execute based on the state of multiple blockchains simultaneously.
   - Implement "meta-contracts" on Solana that listen for and verify state changes on multiple chains before execution.

3. **Distributed Cross-Chain Compute**: 
   - Distribute computational tasks across multiple blockchains based on their current load and gas prices.
   - CCIHS can split large computation tasks, distribute units to different chains for parallel processing, and aggregate results back on Solana.

4. **Cross-Chain Atomic NFT Breeding**: 
   - Enable NFTs from different blockchains to "breed" and create new, cross-chain heritage NFTs.
   - Verify ownership across chains, implement breeding algorithms on Solana, and mint new NFTs with provable multi-chain lineage.

5. **Blockchain-Agnostic Decentralized Identity with Progressive Trust**: 
   - Create a unified identity system that accumulates trust across multiple blockchains progressively.
   - Aggregate and validate identity attestations from multiple chains to create a comprehensive, cross-chain identity score.

6. **Cross-Chain Liquidity Backflow Prevention System**: 
   - Prevent arbitrage attacks that could drain liquidity from one chain to another in cross-chain DeFi protocols.
   - Monitor liquidity movements in real-time and automatically adjust fees or pause bridges to prevent attacks.

7. **Quantum-Resistant Cross-Chain Messaging**: 
   - Implement quantum-resistant security for cross-chain messages, future-proofing against potential quantum computing threats.
   - Utilize CCIHS's extensible architecture to incorporate post-quantum cryptographic algorithms in the messaging process.

8. **Cross-Chain Decentralized Sequencer for Layer 2 Solutions**: 
   - Create a decentralized sequencer for Layer 2 solutions that's secured by multiple Layer 1 blockchains.
   - Coordinate sequencing duties across multiple chains, implementing a round-robin system for proposing and validating sequence orders.

These use cases leverage CCIHS's unique capabilities, particularly its flexible hook system and ability to interact with multiple chains simultaneously. By providing a robust framework for these complex cross-chain operations, CCIHS empowers developers to build a new generation of interoperable blockchain applications that were previously unattainable.

<!-- 
1. **Cross-Chain DeFi Protocols**: 
   - Implement cross-chain lending and borrowing platforms where users can lend assets on one chain and borrow on another.
   - Create decentralized exchanges that aggregate liquidity from multiple chains, offering better rates and higher liquidity.

2. **NFT Bridges**: 
   - Build platforms that allow NFTs to move between Solana and other chains, expanding the reach and utility of digital collectibles.
   - Implement cross-chain NFT marketplaces, enabling users to buy, sell, and trade NFTs across different blockchain ecosystems.

3. **Cross-Chain Governance**: 
   - Develop DAOs that can execute governance decisions across multiple chains, allowing for more comprehensive and far-reaching organizational structures.
   - Create voting systems where tokens on different chains can participate in unified governance processes.

4. **Interoperable GameFi**: 
   - Design blockchain games where in-game assets and progress can be transferred between different chain-specific game versions.
   - Implement cross-chain tournaments and leaderboards, enhancing the competitive aspect of blockchain gaming.

5. **Multi-Chain Identity and Reputation Systems**: 
   - Build decentralized identity solutions that aggregate a user's reputation and activity across multiple blockchains.
   - Implement KYC/AML systems that work seamlessly across different chains.

6. **Cross-Chain Oracles**: 
   - Create oracle networks that can fetch and aggregate data from multiple chains, providing more comprehensive and accurate data feeds.
   - Implement cross-chain price feeds for DeFi applications, ensuring consistent pricing across different ecosystems.

7. **Interoperable Stablecoins**: 
   - Develop stablecoin systems that maintain consistent value and redeemability across multiple blockchain networks.
   - Create cross-chain collateralized debt positions (CDPs) where collateral on one chain can back stablecoins on another.

8. **Cross-Chain Yield Aggregators**: 
   - Build yield optimization platforms that can automatically move funds between different chains to maximize returns.
   - Implement strategies that leverage yield opportunities across multiple chains simultaneously.

9. **Blockchain Interoperability Layers**: 
   - Develop middleware solutions that enable seamless communication between different blockchain ecosystems.
   - Create cross-chain asset wrappers that represent assets from one chain on another, enhancing liquidity and usability.

10. **Multi-Chain Wallet Infrastructure**: 
    - Build wallet solutions that can manage assets and interactions across multiple chains from a single interface.
    - Implement cross-chain transaction batching and optimization services. -->

## Installation (still in development so won't work for now)

Add CCIHS to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
ccihs = "0.1.0"
```

## Quick Start

Here's a simple example of how to use CCIHS to send a cross-chain message:

```rust
use ccihs::{CCIHSConfig, CCIHSAPI, CrossChainMessage, ChainId};

fn main() {
    // Initialize CCIHS
    let config = CCIHSConfig::new(/* configuration parameters */);
    let ccihs = CCIHSAPI::new(config).expect("Failed to initialize CCIHS");

    // Create a cross-chain message
    let message = CrossChainMessage::new(
        ChainId::Solana,
        ChainId::Ethereum,
        sender_address,
        recipient_address,
        payload,
    );

    // Send the message
    match ccihs.send_message(message) {
        Ok(_) => println!("Message sent successfully"),
        Err(e) => eprintln!("Failed to send message: {}", e),
    }
}
```
## Documentation
For detailed documentation, please refer to our API docs.
## Examples
Check out the examples directory for more detailed usage examples.
## Architecture
CCIHS is built around several key components:

- **Core**: Manages the main cross-chain operations.
- **Hooks**: Provides extensibility points for custom logic.
- **Protocols**: Abstracts different cross-chain communication protocols.
- **Config**: Handles system configuration.
- **Types**: Defines common types used throughout the system.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions to CCIHS! Please see our Contributing Guide for more details.
## Testing
To run the test suite:
```bash
cargo test
```
## Benchmarks
To run benchmarks:
```bash
cargo bench
```
## Security
Security is of utmost importance in cross-chain communication. If you discover any security issues, please report them via our Security Policy.
## License
CCIHS is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgements
CCIHS is built upon the work of many in the blockchain community. Special thanks to the teams behind Solana, Wormhole, and other cross-chain protocols that make this project possible.
<!-- ## Contact
For questions, suggestions, or discussions, please open an issue in this repository or contact the maintainers contact@gmail.com. -->

Built with ❤️ for the cross-chain future.

Commit message:

chore: updated readme + updated src/protocols/wormhole files

README.md, after:

# CCIHS: Cross-Chain Interoperability Hooks for Solana

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
<!-- [![Rust](https://github.com/yourusername/ccihs/workflows/Rust/badge.svg)](https://github.com/yourusername/ccihs/actions) -->
<!-- [![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ccihs.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/ccihs) -->
<!-- [![Docs.rs](https://docs.rs/ccihs/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/ccihs) -->

## Overview

CCIHS (Cross-Chain Interoperability Hooks for Solana) is a cutting-edge Rust library designed to revolutionize cross-chain communication for Solana-based applications. In an increasingly interconnected blockchain ecosystem, CCIHS serves as a crucial transport network interface, enabling seamless interaction between Solana and other blockchain networks.

### Problem with Cross chain Communication in Solana
Solana developers face significant challenges when creating applications that need to communicate with other blockchains. The process is complex, time-consuming, and prone to errors, also there is a lack of standardization in cross chain operations, so for instance it is hard to make a Wormhole Solana app interact with a LayerZero Solana app, as there is no unified interface for multiple cross-chain protocols. 

### Solution CCIHS offers

 CCIHS is a Rust-based package that serves as a middleware layer for cross-chain development on Solana. At its core, CCIHS provides a robust and flexible framework that abstracts the complexities of cross-chain messaging. It leverages Solana's high-performance architecture while offering a standardized interface for interacting with various cross-chain protocols. This approach not only simplifies development but also future-proofs applications against changes in underlying cross-chain technologies.

Key aspects of CCIHS include:

1. **Protocol Abstraction**: CCIHS provides a unified API that works across different cross-chain protocols. Currently supporting Wormhole, with plans to integrate LayerZero and other protocols, CCIHS allows developers to switch between or combine multiple protocols without significant code changes.

2. **Extensible Hook System**: The library's hook system is its standout feature, offering unparalleled flexibility in message processing. Developers can inject custom logic at various stages of the cross-chain communication process, enabling advanced use cases like automatic fee adjustments, message validation, or data transformations.

3. **Solana Optimization**: Built with Solana's unique capabilities in mind, CCIHS is optimized for high throughput and low latency, ensuring efficient use of Solana's resources when interfacing with cross-chain transport networks.

4. **Comprehensive Error Handling**: Cross-chain operations involve multiple points of potential failure. CCIHS implements robust error handling and recovery mechanisms, enhancing the reliability of cross-chain applications.

5. **Developer-Friendly**: With a focus on developer experience, CCIHS offers clear documentation, intuitive APIs, and helpful abstractions that make cross-chain development more accessible.

6. **Security-First Design**: Recognizing the critical nature of cross-chain communications, CCIHS incorporates multiple layers of security checks and balances to safeguard against common vulnerabilities in transport network interactions.

## Features

- **Seamless Cross-Chain Communication**: Easily send and receive messages between Solana and other supported blockchains.
- **Flexible Hook System**: Customize message processing with pre-dispatch, post-dispatch, pre-execution, and post-execution hooks.
- **Protocol Abstraction**: Support for multiple cross-chain protocols (currently Wormhole, with plans for LayerZero and more).
- **Comprehensive Error Handling**: Robust error management for reliable cross-chain operations.
- **Solana Optimization**: Designed to leverage Solana's high-speed, low-cost architecture.
- **Extensible Architecture**: Easily add support for new chains and protocols.

## Use Cases

CCIHS enables unique cross-chain applications that were previously difficult or impossible to implement. Here are some key use cases that showcase CCIHS's capabilities:

1. **Dynamic Cross-Chain Liquidity Routing**: 
   - Automatically route transactions through the most efficient cross-chain paths based on real-time liquidity and fee conditions.
   - CCIHS uses its hook system to check liquidity levels and fees across multiple chains before executing a transaction, optimizing for cost and speed.

2. **Cross-Chain State-Dependent Smart Contracts**: 
   - Create smart contracts that execute based on the state of multiple blockchains simultaneously.
   - Implement "meta-contracts" on Solana that listen for and verify state changes on multiple chains before execution.

3. **Distributed Cross-Chain Compute**: 
   - Distribute computational tasks across multiple blockchains based on their current load and gas prices.
   - CCIHS can split large computation tasks, distribute units to different chains for parallel processing, and aggregate results back on Solana.

4. **Cross-Chain Atomic NFT Breeding**: 
   - Enable NFTs from different blockchains to "breed" and create new, cross-chain heritage NFTs.
   - Verify ownership across chains, implement breeding algorithms on Solana, and mint new NFTs with provable multi-chain lineage.

5. **Blockchain-Agnostic Decentralized Identity with Progressive Trust**: 
   - Create a unified identity system that accumulates trust across multiple blockchains progressively.
   - Aggregate and validate identity attestations from multiple chains to create a comprehensive, cross-chain identity score.

6. **Cross-Chain Liquidity Backflow Prevention System**: 
   - Prevent arbitrage attacks that could drain liquidity from one chain to another in cross-chain DeFi protocols.
   - Monitor liquidity movements in real-time and automatically adjust fees or pause bridges to prevent attacks.

7. **Quantum-Resistant Cross-Chain Messaging**: 
   - Implement quantum-resistant security for cross-chain messages, future-proofing against potential quantum computing threats.
   - Utilize CCIHS's extensible architecture to incorporate post-quantum cryptographic algorithms in the messaging process.

8. **Cross-Chain Decentralized Sequencer for Layer 2 Solutions**: 
   - Create a decentralized sequencer for Layer 2 solutions that's secured by multiple Layer 1 blockchains.
   - Coordinate sequencing duties across multiple chains, implementing a round-robin system for proposing and validating sequence orders.

These use cases leverage CCIHS's unique capabilities, particularly its flexible hook system and ability to interact with multiple chains simultaneously. By providing a robust framework for these complex cross-chain operations, CCIHS empowers developers to build a new generation of interoperable blockchain applications that were previously unattainable.

<!-- 
1. **Cross-Chain DeFi Protocols**: 
   - Implement cross-chain lending and borrowing platforms where users can lend assets on one chain and borrow on another.
   - Create decentralized exchanges that aggregate liquidity from multiple chains, offering better rates and higher liquidity.

2. **NFT Bridges**: 
   - Build platforms that allow NFTs to move between Solana and other chains, expanding the reach and utility of digital collectibles.
   - Implement cross-chain NFT marketplaces, enabling users to buy, sell, and trade NFTs across different blockchain ecosystems.

3. **Cross-Chain Governance**: 
   - Develop DAOs that can execute governance decisions across multiple chains, allowing for more comprehensive and far-reaching organizational structures.
   - Create voting systems where tokens on different chains can participate in unified governance processes.

4. **Interoperable GameFi**: 
   - Design blockchain games where in-game assets and progress can be transferred between different chain-specific game versions.
   - Implement cross-chain tournaments and leaderboards, enhancing the competitive aspect of blockchain gaming.

5. **Multi-Chain Identity and Reputation Systems**: 
   - Build decentralized identity solutions that aggregate a user's reputation and activity across multiple blockchains.
   - Implement KYC/AML systems that work seamlessly across different chains.

6. **Cross-Chain Oracles**: 
   - Create oracle networks that can fetch and aggregate data from multiple chains, providing more comprehensive and accurate data feeds.
   - Implement cross-chain price feeds for DeFi applications, ensuring consistent pricing across different ecosystems.

7. **Interoperable Stablecoins**: 
   - Develop stablecoin systems that maintain consistent value and redeemability across multiple blockchain networks.
   - Create cross-chain collateralized debt positions (CDPs) where collateral on one chain can back stablecoins on another.

8. **Cross-Chain Yield Aggregators**: 
   - Build yield optimization platforms that can automatically move funds between different chains to maximize returns.
   - Implement strategies that leverage yield opportunities across multiple chains simultaneously.

9. **Blockchain Interoperability Layers**: 
   - Develop middleware solutions that enable seamless communication between different blockchain ecosystems.
   - Create cross-chain asset wrappers that represent assets from one chain on another, enhancing liquidity and usability.

10. **Multi-Chain Wallet Infrastructure**: 
    - Build wallet solutions that can manage assets and interactions across multiple chains from a single interface.
    - Implement cross-chain transaction batching and optimization services. -->

## Installation (still in development so won't work for now)

Add CCIHS to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
ccihs = "0.1.0"
```

## Quick Start

Here's a simple example of how to use CCIHS to send a cross-chain message:

```rust
use ccihs::{CCIHSConfig, CCIHSAPI, CrossChainMessage, ChainId};

fn main() {
    // Initialize CCIHS
    let config = CCIHSConfig::new(/* configuration parameters */);
    let ccihs = CCIHSAPI::new(config).expect("Failed to initialize CCIHS");

    // Create a cross-chain message
    let message = CrossChainMessage::new(
        ChainId::Solana,
        ChainId::Ethereum,
        sender_address,
        recipient_address,
        payload,
    );

    // Send the message
    match ccihs.send_message(message) {
        Ok(_) => println!("Message sent successfully"),
        Err(e) => eprintln!("Failed to send message: {}", e),
    }
}
```
## Documentation
For detailed documentation, please refer to our API docs.
## Examples
Check out the examples directory for more detailed usage examples.
## Architecture
CCIHS is built around several key components:

- **Core**: Manages the main cross-chain operations.
- **Hooks**: Provides extensibility points for custom logic.
- **Protocols**: Abstracts different cross-chain communication protocols.
- **Config**: Handles system configuration.
- **Types**: Defines common types used throughout the system.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions to CCIHS! Please see our Contributing Guide for more details.
## Testing
To run the test suite:
```bash
cargo test
```
## Benchmarks
To run benchmarks:
```bash
cargo bench
```
## Security
Security is of utmost importance in cross-chain communication. If you discover any security issues, please report them via our Security Policy.
## License
CCIHS is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgements
CCIHS is built upon the work of many in the blockchain community. Special thanks to the teams behind Solana, Wormhole, and other cross-chain protocols that make this project possible.
<!-- ## Contact
For questions, suggestions, or discussions, please open an issue in this repository or contact the maintainers contact@gmail.com. -->

Built with ❤️ for the cross-chain future.
